# Basic Idea behind FutureSQR

## FutureSQR is a Code Review System

FutureSQR stands for "Future Source Quality Review"-System and FutureSQR/FutureSQuaRe is the working title of this project.
FutureSQR is pronounced "FutureSQuaRe".

## Why yet another Code Review System

Recent Code Review Systems are built around GIT and its feature-branch and its pull-request model only, as
if there were no other ways to collaborate and also no other ways to integrate changes.
 
In a corporate environment there exists different incentives and alignments, which are basically managed 
by the work contract under which the particular contributor is working.

## Target Audience of this Code Review System

The target audience for this Code Review System are organizations who are following trunk based development
principles and are reviewing source code post commit. Even though GIT seems currently to be quite popular it
is not the only important SCM available. The second most important system to be supported is SVN.

Trunk based development allows Continuous Integration on different levels. All developers work on the same
truth, for their particular project and the CI-BuildSystem always builds and tests this truth and also the
bigger truths as well.

## Processes by Convention not by Force

Different organizations follow different processes for very different reasons. A review system forcing a 
particular review process will cause a lot of pain for organizations which must follow their procedures - 
but they still may need a code review system. A tool which forces a particular process onto its users will
 not be widely adopted.
 
Processes always come with advantages and disadvantages and selecting a tool is always a trade-off with
respect to the organizational structure and organizational communication. Something as "insignificant" 
as a code review system will not be allowed to dictate new organizational processes. 

If a tool dictates a new process onto an organization, this organization will pay for this kind 
of compromise with higher inefficiency and therefore with money. This loss of money then makes 
such an organization less competitive - Why should anyone use such a tool? A tool should provide
a benefit to an organization but shouldn't add additional or any kind of organizational friction.

This tool doesn't make you something "XYZ-Certified", but it may enable you to provide some of 
the required deliveries to conform to your "XYZ-Certificate" or your "XYZ-Certification" process.
