# Users

Here we define the typical users of our system.

## Participants of a Code Review

* Author / Reviewee
  * Is a person who made a contribution via the SCM.
  * Person needs to be identified and matched to an account in the review tool.
  * Same person can go by different aliases in different systems.
* Reviewer
  * Is a person who is invited to review the code and whose responsibility is to decide whether to accept a contribution or to raise concerns regarding the contribution. 
* Watcher
  * Is a person who is notified if the code-review is updated.
  * Can also discuss, but is not a reviewer in a sense of a final decision.

## Typical Users

* User
  * Anyone who can authenticate himself and whose authorization is checked and granted
  * User has temporary roles e.g. (Participant in a Code Review)
  * User may have elevated rights to perform also administrative actions (see Administrators)
  * User may have special rights for querying the REST API in a comprehensive way (Bot)
* Inactive/Blocked User
  * was a former user of the system, but is blocked from logging in again
  * must still be identifiable in future such that the reviews have the correct users assigned to them, and their actions are still logged and identifiable.
* (Bot)
  * (Maybe later...)
  
## Administrators

Sometimes it is important for organizational requirements to handle multiple
review projects and their configurations, so that not every user can see / access
every project. These users who are assigned these privileges, will be regarded
as administrators. Having these administrators doesn't mean that there can only
be one instance and everything should be done in one instance of the review tool.

Consider using multiple review tool instances instead of administering a giant 
one. Actually this feature set risks that some organizational processes are
implemented here - these administrator roles are technical roles and must not be
confused with organizational roles. 

* System/Site Administrator
  * Overall Administrator 
    - can create groups and new review projects
    - can add new users
    - can block previous users / mark them
* Group Administrator
  * can add a users to a group
* Project Administrator
  * can add/remove users to a review project
  * can add/remove groups to a review project