# What FutureSQR is

The aim of this system is to provide a tool for manual source code reviews, which are usually part 
of other processes.

Think of it, as more of a kind of discussion forum where you can group a set of changes and discuss 
these with a group of people and then make a verdict.

# What FutureSQR *Is Not*

I've more or less informally evaluated some other review tools. Some come with a certain feature set 
and support, which might either be useful to the customer or not. Most of these features turn out to 
be useless in the daily work. We don't want to spend time on features, which were used less than one
percent of the time. And some of the features are even detrimental to the cause, therefore sometimes
there is a good reason, we keep features outside.

## *Doesn't* provide Static Code Analysis

Other tools like "SonarQube" (to name at least one) provide a better view and integration for static 
code analysis and their results into an IDE, if required. There are [better tools](https://owasp.org/www-community/Source_Code_Analysis_Tools) out there and there
are at least a dozen of them - supporting these will bloat this project and bind valuable developer
resources. But there is even a more profound reason.

We don't want to duplicate these tools, because FutureSQR is about discussing source code changes and
source code - and keeping track of these discussions. 

This System will not implement things like static code analysis for different reasons, it is considered
counter productive. Doing code reviews is a process which obviously costs time and therefore money. A
code review must provide an additional benefit for the reviewed source code, because it costs money.

* Code should be readable by humans, therefore it's about humans discussing human readable code
* Code is written once but it is many times read by humans
* Code Reviews should provide an additional value to the code (e.g. easier to read)
* If a static code analysis data is provided, it distracts the reviewers and the submitters of the code from the actual goal, to make source code more readable
* Providing results from static code analysis, will also make the reviewers less likely to provide additional value, but instead point to the SCA-results ("Boy, should have fixed that")
* Code Reviews should allow for knowledge transfer, therefore mixing it with SCA-results, will lead to discussions about the wrong things at the wrong time
* A Code Review Tool is not about enforcing social or company norms where your colleague is there to control you
* If there are norms about static code quality, it is a matter of course, that these norms are followed and don't require enforcement by colleagues 
* This tool is not a front-end for some other SCA tool, nor is it its job

## *Isn't* a source code browser

This tool is not a source code browser where you can navigate through the code. Thinks like this are 
complicated enough and should not be part (of any of the first iterations) of a code review system.

## *Isn't* a code search engine

This tool is not a source code search engine. Thinks like this are complicated enough and should not be 
part (of any of the first iterations) of a code review system.
