# The Code Review LifeCycle

## Review-Life-Cycle over Review-Process

A code review on a technical level should not be developed around a certain process in mind. Processes
change, conventions change, the scope changes, but in any case a code review tool should easily adapt
to the new situation. It should adapt by, having not to change the code review tool at all. That is low
effort and very flexible.

## Four States Of a Code-Review

* Non-existent
* Open
* Closed
* Deleted

A code review may not exist, it may be open, it may be closed, or it was deleted. These four states
will perfectly fit into any process you like. It doesn't need to be more complex nor more detailed 
than this.

## Three Types of Participants in a Code-Review

* Author / Reviewee
* Reviewer
* Watcher

A code review has at least one author (e.g. in case of a single commit), but can have more than one
author, whose code is reviewed. The author is the reviewee. A code review will have a a reviewer, who
is reviewing the code/code change. And it may attract a watcher, who doesn't want to participate as
an authority, but may have a look at the remarks and wants to be informed, if some events on a review
are triggered. A Watcher may be invited by both other parties or just self-invites.  

## Two Outcomes for a Reviewer

* approved
* rejected / still have concerns

A reviewers job is usually, to wither sign-off the changes, that they meet the criteria or to have concern 
over the changes, where changes are rejected, but not removed from the code base. A reject means, that the
work done is simply not yet complete.

## One Review for One or Many Revisions

A single revision can only be assigned to one review. A single revision is never reviewed in two reviews.
With trunk based development in mind, there might be changes present, which are not part of the authored
code changes, but there for a different reason. A code review should be able to either ignore such changes
or at least handle them in a way that they do not visually impact the review.

## ??? What else

* Actions
  * Create Review
  * Add Reviewer
  * Remove Reviewer
  * Collect Authors
  * Add Watcher
  * Remove Watcher
  * Raise a Concern
  * Approve Review
  * Close Review
  * add revision
  * remove revision