# Access to FutureSQR

There might be different ways to access a code review tool. Either by integrating it to the 
development environment or by providing some point of access where people visit a web-site.

Integrating it into a particular development environment comes with special problems, the
API can change, the development of the development environment is dropped, or the development
environment it is not suitable for a certain product, or for some other reasons, like that
the tool is not any more updated and doesn't receive security patches, or doesn't support 
new languages or new language features.

## Web-Application

The most universal access, with well understood development methods are web-applications,
usually only a central instance of the software needs to be deployed and maintained. Maybe 
this can be combined with a docker-container based setup, such that the configuration and
the data are separate from the server-software.

Why this should be a Web-Application

* concept of a web-application is familiar
* can be accessed through Browser
* can be transport-secured by SSL and Certificate Pinning 
* using open standards HTTP(S), HTML, e.g. EcmaScript, WebSockets, 
* SessionManagement in Browser
* horizontally scalable
* Usable from different Client-OSes. So reviews can be done from a windows machine, 

## User

This Tool should provide user level access. Only authenticated and authorized users should be
able to view reviews.

A user should be a part of a group, who can see the projects which are assigned to this group
or the user.

But it is not important that the user is automatically authenticated. At the very basic, 
implementation a simple password based authentication scheme is enough. The authentication
scheme should be configurable and extendible for corporate needs.

A user is permanent, because of the contributions must be traceable according to requirements
e.g. ASPICE. But users can be administrated whether they still are allowed to access the system.
or not.

Some data protection law may be applicable, but since it is a working contract some of the
data may must still be purged.

Only registered users will have access to this system.

A User might have different Aliases, login alias in one system, a user alias in another SCM
and a third alias in again another SCM. This info is important to assign the changes to a
registered user in the code review system, to determine whether the user is a commit author.

## Groups

a simple group based authorization scheme is enough to start with. The authorization scheme
should be configurable and extendible for corporate needs.

Some of these Groups are created by site/server-administrators so there must be some access
which is only accessible for admins, who then administrate the settings of FutureSQR.

But if we have admins, we also have normal registered users. 

## ACLs

That might be later implemented, that's what is most simple should be implemented first.
The easier the better.

## Roles

Maybe a role based model is the thing to describe users with additional privileges and 
users with less privileges.

## REST API must be secured as well

In case we implement a rest API, the rest API should be secured as well.

